.TH VIDEO-DOWNLOADER 1 "April 2025" "video-downloader 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
video-downloader \- download videos from YouTube, TikTok, Instagram, and Facebook
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B video-downloader
[\fB-i\fR] [\fB-b\fR FILE] [\fB-p\fR PLATFORM] [\fB-q\fR QUALITY] [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-o\fR DIR] [\fB-l\fR] [URL]
.PP
.B vdl
is a short alias for
.B video-downloader .
.SH DESCRIPTION
Command line tool for fetching videos or audio from major platforms. By default, downloads are saved under \fB~/Downloads/<platform>/\fR. An explicit output directory can be set with \fB-o DIR\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-i\fR, \fB--interactive\fR
Start interactive mode with guided prompts.
.TP
\fB-b\fR FILE, \fB--batch\fR FILE
Batch download URLs listed in a text file (one per line).
.TP
\fB-p\fR PLATFORM, \fB--platform\fR PLATFORM
Explicitly set platform (youtube, tiktok, instagram, facebook). Otherwise auto-detected.
.TP
\fB-q\fR QUALITY, \fB--quality\fR QUALITY
Select quality/format string (yt-dlp syntax). Default: best.
.TP
\fB-a\fR, \fB--audio-only\fR
Download audio only (MP3).
.TP
\fB-o\fR DIR, \fB--output\fR DIR
Base output directory. Platform subfolder is created inside.
.TP
\fB-l\fR, \fB--list-formats\fR
List available formats for the provided URL and exit.
.TP
URL
Single video URL to download. Optional when using \fB-i\fR or \fB-b\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Download a video (auto-detect platform):
.B video-downloader https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EXAMPLE
.TP
Interactive mode:
.B video-downloader -i
.TP
Audio only:
.B video-downloader -a https://instagram.com/reel/EXAMPLE/
.TP
Specific quality and output directory:
.B video-downloader -q "best[height<=720]" -o ~/Videos https://tiktok.com/@user/video/123
.TP
Batch download from file:
.B video-downloader -b urls.txt
.TP
List formats:
.B video-downloader -l https://youtube.com/watch?v=EXAMPLE
.SH AUTHOR
Somtochukwu Onoh
